>> Kent C. Dodds: We're not gonna jump
right in cuz I wanna explain a couple
things first.
But we're gonna swap out all
of this dispatch stuff with
some other abstractions.
And we're gonna change how we're
creating these DOM nodes with some other
methods for querying these.
And so before we get into this,
I want to kind of explain and
justify this abstraction that
we're going to be using.
So how many people have used Jest before?
Or, sorry, Jest,
Enzyme is what I meant to say, okay?
Great, how many people love Enzyme?
Pretty well, pretty okay?
That's actually surprising,
I used to love Enzyme.
So I was actually, originally this
workshop was all with Enzyme.
And I was working on step one,
step two, step three.
And then the jump from one step to the
other with Enzyme felt kind of big to me.
So I was figuring out how could
we make this a middle ground.
And in the process of doing that,
I've created a library.
And so, that actually, this React
Testing Library came from this workshop.
So, let's talk about that really quick.
>> Kent C. Dodds: This is the React
Testing Library, goat is the mascot.
And it has a couple of
pretty useful methods.
Before we look too far into these,
let's check out the dom-testing-library.
The React Testing Library
was the first one, and
then I took some of the insights of the
React Testing Library and pulled it out.
Because it was just general DOM stuff,
nothing specific to React.
And so this DOM Testing Library,
which you'll be using
similar methods from,
has some really handy methods
that we'll talk about.
But before we get to far into that,
I wanna talk about Enzyme.
Okay, so Enzyme is an awesome
testing tool for React.
It allows you to mount a component
kind of like what we're doing.
It allows you to render it to a string and
then exposes Cheerio as a mechanism for
traversing that thing.
And shallow render it to automatically
mark all of the components that
you're rendering.
So there are a couple of problems
that I have with Enzyme and
all of the amazing things
that I can let you do.
And these problems are mostly rooted
in the fact that I have a very strong
belief that your tests should resemble
the way that your software is used.
And the more that your tests resemble
the way the software is used,
the more confidence they can give you.
So with Enzyme the utilities
that it provides to you
are a lot of different ways
to use your software in your
test in a way that they're
not being used in reality.
So to take an example, shallow rendering,
which is actually not just an Enzyme
concept, this is supported by
the office React Test Renderer.
But the idea of shallow rendering is we'll
render every one of your components that
you're rendering is not
a composite component.
So like well, I'll render divs,
I'll render spans in each ones.
But if you make a custom component,
I'm not gonna render that.
I'll just say this would be rendered, and
then you can make assertions off of that,
like you have this log inform for example.
And I'm gonna render this div,
but then I won't render the form.
And so for
your test you can verify that the log
in renders a div that renders a form.
And that's a pure unit test,
because the unit of login,
you're severing all the connections
to all of it's dependencies,
and just rendering the things that
the login itself is rendering.
And so for me,
I actually cared pretty much nothing for
the pure unit test concept.
If my test at the end of the day
ends up being a pure unit test,
I'm fine with that.
But what I care about is
shipping my apps with confidence.
And so if that means that my
test is not a pure unit test,
you can call it an integration test.
And that's like,
I don't care, that's fine,
I'm shipping my stuff with confidence.
So I can get that confidence,
I render the log in and
verify that it's rendering the form.
And then I'd have to have another test for
the form so
that I can verify it renders a label and
then it renders this input.
Well, then I would have to test the input
also to make sure that that is rendering
what it's supposed to be rendering and
accepting the prompts that
it's supposed to be accepting.
And pretty soon,
you have this test suite full of these
purist idea of what a unit test should be.
But they're actually pretty confusing
when you compare it to the totally,
like, even with no abstraction test.
It's actually pretty straightforward
what's going on here.
In comparison to the suite of
let's just make sure that the form
renders this thing.
On top of that, with shallow rendering,
like, let's say I wanted to
within this form component,.
Let's say I wanted to pull this out and
just within the same module
have the username Field and
return <react.fragment>, okay?.
And then I just render my username.
So this is a pure refractor, right here.
None of the functionality has changed
it all works exactly the same as it had
before.
But with shallow rendering if I
were just testing the form itself,
it would stop right here.
And the only way for me to get any
coverage on this username would be
to export that user name so
I could test that thing itself.
And that's changing my source code to
satisfy my test for no good reason.
And so I feel very,
very strongly against shallow rendering.
So even if you decide you wanna use
Enzyme, never use shallow rendering ever.
There are situations where it is
a good idea to mark things like for
if have an animation library or
something, you don't wanna wait for
animations to end before the item
has been removed from the DOM.
And so you just mark API and
you mark that component to something
that doesn't wait for an animation.
It works great and
I can show you an example of that.
The React Testing Library has some
examples of how to handle that.
So never ever use shallow rendering, ever.
I used it one time when I found out that
it was something I never wanted to do.
So that's Shallow Rendering, and
that kind of is the kind of overarching
idea behind my problems with Enzyme
is that it exposes a lot of different
things that allow me to use my software
in a way that it's not being used.
Which reduces the level
of confidence I can have.
So a couple other examples
just really quick.
Pretty much anything that
allows me to find for example,
anything that allows me to find
by a component class like here,
I can say okay,
find me the component that you rendered.
That's the foo component, or
what's even worse is the display name.
So now you have a test that has this
in it and you go and change the name
of the function for one of the components
that you're using and your test breaks.
Your user doesn't care what the name
of that function in, like, who cares?
Your user also doesn't care that
you're rendering a foo component
inside of whatever you're mounting,
or anything.
Really, to the user,
it doesn't make any difference whatsoever.
So I'm much more interested in
avoiding tests that are like this.
There's also,
you can get access to the instance,
which is the instance of
the class of the component.
Pretty much no code is ever
going to access the instance and
call methods on that.
But that's something that
Enzyme actually encourages.
So if you wanna test your submit
handler while you get the instance and
you call instance.handle submit.
Well, now,
you don’t know whether that handle submit
is actually wired up to the form properly.
So there are a lot of things that- like,
I never really used Enzyme in this way.
I was able to use all the utilities
without doing those things.
But the reason I decided to write my own
thing was because I didn’t wanna have
a library where it was
possible to do those things or
at least not easy to do those things.
So with all of that said, now, next I can
tell you about the React Test Library and
the DOM Testing Library.
But I'm gonna stop and let you ask any
questions that I'm sure you have brewing.
So feel free to ask away.
Yes, Peter.
>> Peter: So I have used shallow
rendering a couple times in cases where
rendering the entire component
caused performance issues.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Sure.
>> Peter: Snapshot just took forever
to generate and I didn't really care.
I don't even know exactly
what the perf issues were.
Maybe like some giant SVG or
something, who knows?
But that sort of just like allowed
me to not think about the stuff that
the component was rendering because I
didn't care about it and move past it.
Does that,
is there a reasonable use case for it or?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Sure,
yeah, so I can address that.
What I would suggest is if there is
a performance issue you probably check
into it, cuz it might actually be
a performance issue in your app.
But there are situations
where this thing renders some
date picker third-party thing, and
I'm just gonna trust that
that thing's going to work.
In that case, I just use just mock and
I'm explicit about how
the things I'm mocking out.
The fact that shell rendering
pretty much just mocks everything,
even in components that
I have within my module.
That's what just totally turns me off.
So yeah, sometimes it is acceptable to
mock things but I'll do that explicitly.
>> Peter: So, basically don't,
what you're saying is don't mask those
performance issues from yourself?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, exactly.
And on top of that,
in talking about third party things.
Any time you mock, you eliminate your
ability to be confident about that
connection, at least with that test that
you're mocking, and so you may feel great.
Okay, so
now my snapshot is not gonna fail any time
that they change their implementation.
But if they change their implementation in
a way that breaks your application, now,
your application will break when
they change it and you wont know.
So I'd much rather have the pain of having
to update snapshots whenever that updates.
And so I'm made aware before it goes up
to production but we'll talk more about
snapshots later too and how to use those
effectively for cases like this as well.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Kind of similar problem,
like, what if you're rendering something
to be used reducts, react reducts,
if you have a connected
component in your rendered tree
that causes all kinds of problems.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: What do you do with that?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, so
we'll talk about that more when we
get into integration tests but
the TLDR is render with a provider.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So instead of just
rendering the component by itself,
put a provider around it.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, and
then with that actually, so
the conventional wisdom is to export
the non-connected component and test that.
And that's great but you don't have any
confidence on your map state to props or
like then you have to do extra work.
And also the actions and everything else.
>> Speaker 3: If it's in the tree then
you're testing something above it.
And especially with a null
kind of encourage like connect
the components everywhere
not just at the top, so.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, yeah,
React is a special, special child.
No, we love React.
Yeah, good question,
was there another one?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: I was just gonna ask,
could you bullet point again why
we wouldn't use shallow testing.
Thinking that unit test we did last
week we used everywhere pretty much.
Why is it a bad idea to use shallow?
>> Kent C. Dodds: In
the test we did last week?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, so we started writing
unit tests last week using Enzyme and
we were doing the shallow everywhere,
and you said not to use that.
I just wondering if you could provide
the bullet point list of why it guest?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, so bullet point
list is, shallow automatically mocks
everything even components that
are within the same module.
And so, that mocking,
that automatic mocking
totally severs all
confidence that you have,
and refactors will break your test.
And so if a reactor breaks your test and
you're testing implementation details,
and so I try to stay away from that.
There are use cases for mocking things,
and so in those cases I am explicit about
those with just a mock
>> Kent C. Dodds: All right,
anything else?
Anything from the chat?
We got something.
So anytime the shallow rendering sort of
makes you code to an implementation and
not behavior, which is bad.
Yes, that's a good summary.